As non-parallel CPU performance is no longer scaling
with time, these devices are evolving to support higher core counts and more elaborate
system interconnects. I want to learn how these next-generation compute engines can
be designed to support next-generation applications. Furthermore, I would like to study
how novel architectures can support different applications sharing similar computational
needs. Novel architectures can theoretically build on any idea taken from general-purpose
compute engines to fully custom accelerators. I believe that the optimal solution will find
common ground between the two. Moreover, I believe that with parallelism becoming
ubiquitous, applications will again drive design at the hardware architecture level. To
match physical computation to applications, one must consider the entire design space
between traditional generalized architectures and fully custom accelerators.
Attempting to occupy the space between general-purpose architectures and custom
accelerators brings to mind several questions. The first is how to architect devices to carry
out computation that best fits the needs of various families of applications. The second
is to what degree, when a device cannot meet the demands of some of its applications,
other means of computation can be introduced to better meet design criteria. I want to
consider the entire hardware architecture spectrum to answer this family of questions:
how best to implement computation when it can change dramatically in form, given
different applications.
During my undergraduate career, research experience has given me the background
to explore these problems in more depth as a graduate student. This year, I have been
working with Professors John Wawrzynek (U.C. Berkeley) and Garry Nolan (Stanford
University) to create an FPGA-based accelerator for learning cell signaling network structure.
The overall purpose of the approach is to provide a human-interpretable map of how
cancer cells process information, and in so doing grow beyond their healthy confines or
resist drug treatment. According to Dr. Nolan and his colleagues that I have interacted
with, this will allow researchers to create novel diagnostics or guide therapeutic advances
for patients. Mapping this problem to hardware is desirable because the learning algorithm’s
complexity is super-exponential with the number of interrelated proteins in a cell.
One of my contributions to the project was to optimize a computationally expensive part
of the algorithm, built on an FPGA. Given that we were designing to a specific algorithm,
our design could achieve speedup by taking advantage of both micro-architectural
optimizations, such as parallelism and multi-threading, and characteristics of the FPGA
fabric itself. By designing with both the application and device in mind, we were able to
develop a highly optimized solution to an important problem in systems biology.
Working on the signaling networks project has had a great impact on me as a student
and a researcher. The project has given me a broader perspective on my work as a
computer scientist and how it is relevant beyond computer science as a field. I have
seen how it is desirable to take a theoretical advance in multiple fields and apply what
was learned to a real world problem, that would otherwise (according to Dr. Nolan and
his team) be stuck in low gear because of computational limitations. Specifically, fields
involved include systems biology, statistics, and computer science. I recently gave a talk
on the project1 at the Gigascale Systems Research Center (GSRC). Giving the talk, and
seeing how the audience responded to it, inspired me. Working on this project has shown
me that research is about answering questions that we care about as a civilization.
Given the hardware architecture spectrum, and different problems which motivate its
growth, a question of great personal importance is how best to communicate these concepts
to others. Consistent with a research movement led by the U.C. Berkeley ParLab,
one approach is to describe complex systems in terms of design patterns.2 A design pattern
describes a certain type of problem or family of computation, and points to known
techniques used to implement that computation. I have had the privilege to teach lower
schoolers, middle schoolers, high schoolers, and college students across a range of subjects
in the past and all have been able to learn from, and relate to, patterns. I have
found this to be especially true in teaching students about computer science, as design
patterns allow complex systems to be decomposed by algorithm and execution model. As
a teaching assistant for an introduction to digital design class, for example, I was able to
discuss complex micro-architectures by reducing them to concepts, or patterns, relevant
to digital design. In my opinion, discovering how best to explain computation is just as
important as learning how to implement it.
Exploring the spectrum of hardware architectures requires expertise and dedication
from many disciplines in computer science. Berkeley’s demonstrated commitment to both
applications and hardware architecture, as well as its exemplary faculty make it the ideal
environment for me to conduct my graduate study. In the realm of computer architecture,
I feel that I would be able to learn a great deal if given the opportunity to work with
Professor XX. Professor XX’s architectural vision, as was proposed this semester, along
with his take on hardware design in the form of patterns, is very important amidst the
transition to the many-core architectures that I have discussed. I would also be very
interested in working with Professor YY. I’ve known Professor YY from the perspective
of a student, teacher, and researcher. Just recently, he announced a fast-paced vision
which (I have to say) was very exciting to be a part of. Professor YY interests in a
variety of platforms, and the paths that can be drawn between them, illustrate a new
way for me to think about the material that I want to work on, looking forward. While
I have mentioned several faculty whose work is particularly interesting, I look forward to
getting a closer look at several other research teams in which to potentially pursue Ph.D.
research. I realize that at the end of the day, I have to choose one or two project areas.
Regardless, I hope that these areas can be in an interdisciplinary environment that helps
drive innovation. In summary, my goals as a graduate student are to research novel hardware architectures
in order to solve next-generation problems and to learn how best to communicate
these challenges and proposed solutions to others. Looking back as a teacher, one challenge
continues to be emphasizing the connection between the application and device.
There is pedagogical value in decoupling the two, as doing so favors development simplicity.
I believe, however, that even high level developers must always keep their underlying
platform in mind. As computation evolves to match device capabilities and different applications’
needs, only in respecting both domains will we be able to continue the trend
of high-performance over time. Looking forward, I am excited to have the opportunity
to contribute to addressing this challenge.
I have a dream: To create or do something that will affect everyone’s life. After examining various areas 
of research in computer science engineering, I zeroed in on Natural language processing. This is that branch of AI where the machine is made to process and understand human language hence using it for diverse applications. The applications are so many that this field has the potential to make a difference in everyone’s life. Language is something that is not common to everyone in this world. This can make information a prerogative for people speaking a widely used language, hence alienating others in this age of information explosion. Machine translation with the help of natural language processing is the tool for giving people of different languages access to the wealth of unlimited information available. Imagine a student from a remote area of this world who is genuinely interested in gaining knowledge from a resource on the web, but cannot do so because he cannot understand any language other than his native language. Nothing can be a better gift for him than a language converter tool using which he can automatically translate these pages into his language and read them. 
Machine translation has been my focus of research for the past two years. I have been pursuing my undergraduate degree in computer science engineering specializing in natural language processing. I have been a research assistant in both my semesters during the senior year here at the Language technologies research centre (LTRC), IIIT Hyderabad. LTRC is the pioneering research centre in India in the field of natural language processing. ‘Shakti’, the English to Hindi machine translation system developed here is one of the best of its kind. In my junior undergraduate year, I worked on Identification of phrasal verbs using a lexicon based approach and later on resolution of ambiguities in identification of phrasal verbs. I implemented a new algorithm to improve the performance of this module and it has given good results. It was then that I got an opportunity to be a student volunteer at the International conference on natural language processing (ICON-2004) which was held at Hyderabad. Here, I made it a point to attend all the talks and sessions and interact with the best in the field. It opened a world of research for me and I was sure that this is the field I want to work in as it had the potential of making my dream come true. 
I love to take up challenges and believe in doing something new and creative. Hence I have enjoyed working in inter-disciplinary areas as well. Now in my senior year, I have diversified and am working on ‘Unsupervised learning of morphological analyzers for inflectionally rich languages’ as my major project. This project applies machine learning techniques to language processing. Morphological analyzers are an important part of machine translation systems. Training a machine to increase the coverage of the language data (which forms the back end of a morph analyzer) is difficult for Indian languages which are inflectionally rich. Machine learning is a challenging area and in my project, I go one step further by designing and implementing an algorithm for rule-learning. This project is expected to yield a research paper on completion. 
I have always put in an extra effort in becoming a better and a well rounded person. Be it academics or extra-curricular activities, I have always given a job the maximum effort from my side if it interests me. I work with unending passion and dedication to whatever I am committed to. I believe in team work and there are amazing things that a team can effect if led properly. I am known for my all-round capabilities right through school and college and have proven myself as a good leader. I have worked as a teaching assistant as well, for the same course in two successive semesters. It was then that I enjoyed the joys of teaching first hand and my students were quite happy with what they learnt from me. After the research that I have done till date, I can surely say that pursuing research of a higher order in my graduate studies is my aim and passion. The immense opportunities and the myriad facilities at University of Colorado which include state of the art laboratories, research centers and excellent faculty propels me to be a part of it and add  value to it through my own efforts. I plan to apply for an M.S degree in the fall semester and will positively take a decision on continuing for a PhD at a later stage.  This is because I want to have an exact focus on my PhD topic which I plan to take up after some initial research.
Cognitive computing gives people super powers. Augmenting our intelligence with machine intelligence gives us the ability to predict the future and make the best decisions possible. As the field of machine intelligence progresses, more and more super-human abilities become available to us. I am out to bring these super powers to the masses through cognitive computing products and services. Attending Georgia Tech would be an excellent catalyst to help me achieve this.
I currently architect and develop web services and full-stack applications. My goal is to start working full-time on interactive applications that exhibit human-like intelligence. One way to make these applications intelligent is to have them consume machine learning and cognitive computing web services. These services could be custom built by me or provided by SaaS APIs like Microsoft Cognitive Services or IBM Watson Services. To apply the best cognitive services to a given problem, I need a deep understanding of their underlying algorithms and techniques. I also need to learn how to architect applications and services for scale.

The front-end development skills I have learned so far are targeted at building typical web app and native app user interfaces. Moving forward, I plan to focus more on natural language and brain-computer interfaces. With the power of machine learning, natural language processing, and data, I could create user experiences that are contextually, socially, and even emotionally-aware.

Georgia Tech's Online Master of Science in Computer Science provides courses that would teach me how to best integrate machine intelligence into my applications. The Knowledge-Based Artificial Intelligence course is a perfect overview of how to create cognitive systems. The course in Machine Learning would teach me how to apply the right algorithms and models to the right problems. The multiple courses on Algorithms, Complexity, and High-Performance Computing would teach me how to optimize and scale my applications. Each of these courses covers an essential component to implementing intelligent web services in production applications.

The Specialization in Interactive Intelligence completely aligns with my desire to become a cognitive computing expert. There are several courses in this specialty that would help me create user experiences that exhibit human-level intelligence. The course on Natural Language would help me incorporate natural language understanding features into my applications. The special topic in Computational Creativity would help my applications be more expressive and adaptive. When I first saw this specialty, I immediately knew it was a great fit.

The Georgia Tech Online Masters in Computer Science is my first choice for many reasons. Besides the awesome courses that are available at Georgia Tech, there is a ton of groundbreaking research being performed by world renowned professors there. I would love to work with Professor Charles Isbell and the rest of the pfunk research group in The Laboratory for Interactive Artificial Intelligence. Their research spans many areas I am interested in including interactive entertainment, deep learning, and computational neuroscience. In addition to these points, the program hit the top of my list because it is affordable, online, and produced by one of the world’s best ranking universities.

Driven by the many challenging problems society is facing, I want to use my skills and knowledge to help people live amazing lives. I strive to make the most positive impact on existence as possible. I plan to use machine learning and natural language processing to improve the health, performance, and productivity of people. Leveraging data, I want to create software to help people live the most impactful lives possible. I want to bring unprecedented capabilities to people by extending their minds into cognitive computing systems. This graduate program would be a core part of my strategy to meet these goals.
While at the National Taiwan University, I studied computer science broadly. I ranked
among the top 10 percent in almost all computer science courses and especially excelled
in theoretical and graduate-level courses. Knowing that some computer science fields
require a strong background in mathematics, I chose to pursue a minor in mathematics.
Furthermore, I interned at companies and participated in projects in research institutions
to learn the practical aspects of computer science. All these experiences convinced me
that my interests lie within applicable ideas that have a strong theoretical foundation. I
especially enjoyed machine learning theories and their applications in natural language
processing and computer vision. I have completed projects, won contests, and published
papers in the field of machine learning. I hope to pursue a PhD and continue my studies
in related fields of machine learning.
When I was a sophomore, I joined the Language Technology Lab led by Prof. ZhaoMing
Gao, and worked mainly on a Chinese text chunking system. In the system, I
implemented grammar-based methods to generate features from text, and then learned
a model by a supervised classifier named yamcha. Realizing the advantage and power of
support vector machines (SVMs) through the experiences, I joined the group that designs
the best SVM software, Machine Learning Group led by Prof. Chih-Jen Lin. After joining
the group, I have gained a strong grasp in theories and applications of machine learning.
I have written and maintained several pieces of widely-used SVM-based learning tools
known as LIBSVM TOOLS. Additionally, I have studied optimization and nonlinear
programming theories. To know how the theories can be applied, I worked on coordinate
descent variants to solve SVM and logistic regression models, and conducted experiments
using data in various domains to support the theoretical convergence bound for the
numerical methods. Moreover, my experiences on different data and models inspired
me to build applications on text classification and active learning. My colleagues and I
won the Cloud Computing Contest held by TrendMicro from about 100 domestic teams
by proposing a parallel relevant ranking algorithm implemented in Hadoop for ranking
malicious level of websites. I proposed a accurate and efficient active learning method in
my co-authored papers published in IJCNN and workshop proceedings of JMLR.
To gain further insight into the applications in machine learning, I interned at Siemens
Corporate Research (SCR) in Princeton, NJ, for six months. My project’s objective was
to predict when and where a potential failure would happen on a turbine using data
collected from multiple sensors. I investigated how methods like Gaussian mixture model,
support vector regression, and k-means can be applied to predict data values in a time
series. I also partitioned the database appropriately so that the data processing time was
100 times faster than it had been. The most enjoyable part at SCR was talking to the
researchers about their research and projects. They frequently gave me ideas on how to
improve my project; I was glad to have help them likewise. In my leisure time, I helped
a computer vision group at SCR review papers, and discovered how machine learning is
widely applied in computer vision.
I would like to introduce a few attributes about me that display my personality and
my preferred style of working. Firstly, I like to try my own hands at solving problems
before consulting others. In my opinion, some great original ideas may be lost if I
consult others immediately upon encountering a problem. For instance, the winning
strategy on the Active Learning Challenge (see my resume) is actually the first thought
that entered my mind before surveying papers and books. Secondly, I enjoy teaching,
which is a wonderful way to strengthen my knowledge. I led several study groups with
my classmates to discuss advanced materials not taught in our courses. Furthermore, I
was selected to be a TA in calculus in my senior year. Rare undergrads were given the
occupation, even for mathematics majors. Thus, I treasured the opportunity and worked
extremely hard to make seemingly tough calculus tractable. While preparing teaching
materials and grading homework, problems in my thinking were often revealed and this
gave me a chance to improve. My teaching experiences gave me a solid foundation on
various subjects, especially mathematics, and trained me to write easy-to-understand
slides, documents and reports. Finally, I am a strong implementer already familiar
with many software development technologies and tools. I have spent my spare time
learning implementation techniques from web-resources and experienced members from
institutions and companies.
My ultimate research goal is to build useful theorems and software applied easily and
widely. For me, theorems, especially mathematical models and proofs, are intrinsically
fun and give us confidence to work successfully on applications; while software enables
people to easily utilize the ideas without understanding the theories. I believe it to be
one of the fastest ways to make the world advance. That belief motivated me to write
pieces of LIBSVM TOOLS, to intern at SCR, to participate in contests, and to choose
my current research projects. My career goal is to be a professor. Via my many years
of teaching experiences, I am sure that I am enthusiastic to pass down knowledge, and
excite the next generation of students that will share my passion for this field.
To achieve my research and career goals, I hope to study in an environment full of
active learners and creative ideas. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology is famous
for solid training in mathematics and engineering and for having abundant research
results in theory and application of machine learning. Thus, I hope to join your PhD
program to gain further training and to share creative ideas with other researchers.
I want to pursue a Ph.D. in Computer Science, and my career aspiration is to become
a professor. My research interests include program analysis, software engineering, operating
systems, and human-computer interaction (HCI).
My motivation for pursuing research related to program analysis stems from learning
about the challenges of software development during 3 summers spent as a software engineering
intern (1 at Codehost, a start-up, and 2 at Teradyne, a large corporation). Although
I found the actual development work to be educational, what really sparked my interest in
research was experiencing first-hand the challenges that software engineers face daily.
I aspire to create tools that can increase programmer productivity and improve software
quality and security. As a first step towards this goal, for the past 2 years I have been working
with Prof. Michael Ernst in the MIT Program Analysis Group. The research problem that
my work addresses is the difficulty of building dynamic analysis tools that work reliably
on large C and C++ programs, due to the presence of complex constructs and the lack
of memory and type safety. I have developed a framework named Fjalar that enables the
construction of scalable and robust dynamic analyses for C and C++ programs. It operates
on unmodified x86 binaries of programs as large as 1 million lines of code, and it provides
rich language- and machine-level information at run time. I have used Fjalar to build two
dynamic analysis tools. The first, Kvasir, records a detailed trace of data structure contents
during execution. The second, DynComp, performs dynamic type inference to find sets of
related variables whose values interact at run time. My Master’s thesis is based on Fjalar
and the tools built upon it. I also have experience with static analysis. I am currently
working on type inference of unit types (e.g., physics units) for C programs.
My research has been directly applied to several projects and produced visible results.
Prof. Ernst has used Kvasir to extend the Daikon dynamic invariant detector to analyze
large C and C++ programs, and he has used DynComp to improve Daikon’s performance
and the quality of inferred invariants. We collaborated with Prof. Martin Rinard to use
Daikon together with Kvasir and DynComp to generate constraints for performing run time
data structure repair. This research was funded by DARPA, and they recently evaluated its
effectiveness by hiring an external company to try to attack and crash a specific program:
the Freeciv multiplayer game server. Our repair system successfully protected the server
from a high percentage of their attacks. In another assessment, we were able to use this
repair system to mitigate the effects of several real security flaws in the BIND DNS server.
It is very encouraging to see my research applied to real-world problems.
Taking an Operating Systems Engineering course has inspired me to explore OS-related
research. In particular, I am interested in applying program analysis to make low-level
software such as operating systems more reliable and secure. In addition, I have worked on
2 research projects that have stimulated my interest in user interfaces and HCI: I created
a suite of 5 educational games for Palm OS devices for the Teacher Education Program
(2002-2003) and an image editing tool for the Computer Graphics Group (Fall 2003).
Although I am open to a variety of research, there are several professors at Stanford whose
projects are especially appealing to me: Profs. Aiken, Engler, and Lam (program analysis);
Profs. Fox and Mazieres (OS and distributed systems); Prof. Klemmer (HCI). Studying
some of these professors’ papers for classes and for my research and reading project websites
have given me a sense that Stanford’s Ph.D. program is a great match for my interests.

ew areas of my education have stimulated me to think as much as my undergraduate courses in Data Structures, Theory of Computation and Computer Programming have. When I watch videos of Pranav Mistry demonstrating his Sixth Sense technology or when I used Google Wave for the first time or even when I log into Facebook every day and come up with some new feature, what I feel is a sense of marvel. Here are innovations that keep evolving not only technically but also hold infinite scope for creativity and logic. I feel a similar sense of exhilaration when I see my code run successfully. It is this feeling, which till date, drives me to not give up on even the toughest of problems. And it is this love for programming, combined with my desire to dig deeper into the working of various applications and technologies, which propels me to apply for an MS in Computer Science.


Pursuing my strong interest in Computer Science has over the years enabled me to develop keen analytical and reasoning skills. Through the course of the four-year Bachelor of Technology (BS) degree program in Computer Science and Engineering at the prestigious ABC University, I acquired an overall perspective of this scientific discipline, with a particular interest in Object Oriented Programming. Data Structures, .NET Technology, Database Management, Theory of Computation and Principles of Compiler Design were some of the other areas that captured my attention. My keen interest in the subjects translated into receiving an A+ grade in the Data structures lab and averaging an A grade in the other labs. I also involved myself in numerous projects, including a prototype of a "Billing and Inventory Management System" for a retail showroom, developed using Visual Basic and SQL Server 2005, and also the simulation of a simple SLR parser using C++ for a Principles of Compiler Design assignment. Proactive in my approach to learning, I have also completed the Cisco Certified Fundamentals of Java Programming course.


Apart from the projects undertaken in college, it was my desire to gain exposure to the software industry, and this prompted me to take up various training and internships. In the summer of 2013 and 2014, I spent a week in Germany where I was trained in Basics of Robot Programming, and Offline Robot Programming (using Roboplan V5.00), at Carl Cloos Schweisstechnik. I also completed a project titled "Study on Non-Stock Transaction Monitoring" at L&T Komatsu, Bangalore in May-June 2014.


For my final University dissertation, I worked with a team of three other classmates to develop a "Multiparty Voice Chat on Windows Platform". The project was undertaken in L&T Infotech, Bangalore and involved building a low-cost application to enable voice/text chat and file transfer, using .NET technology. The application was intended for in-house communication between peer systems in the organization, thereby removing the need for a dedicated server. This assignment greatly strengthened my conceptual knowledge, and through its practical implementation, it also allowed me to further my expertise through integrating .NET technology and Network programming. In addition to enhancing my .NET skills, I also gained knowledge about multiple architectures in networking and how socket programming works. Till then my coding had been largely restricted to basic C++, and while it was a challenge to learn and implement socket programming in the .NET framework within a short span of 4-5 months, it was one I readily accepted and am richer for it.


Simultaneously, active participation in a wide range of extracurricular activities has ensured the all round development of my personality. I have taken part in cultural activities like group dance and literary activities like crossword and Sudoku competitions. I also play badminton as a hobby. Apart from this, I handled the role of being the Student Representative of the Computer Science branch for four years, a responsibility that included acting as the bridge between the students and the administration, scheduling additional lectures for the class, assisting the faculty advisor in her duties and assisting the students in case of any problems. This experience brought to the fore my leadership abilities, while also assisting in honing my social skills.


Having acquired a solid foundation in the field of computer science through a rigorous undergraduate program, and my various internships in the IT industry, at this point, I feel that it is the right time to take up graduate studies. I wish to raise my understanding of the nuances of the Computer Science field and use this knowledge to further my chances for a lucrative career in Software. With a keen interest in working on the latest web technologies, I seek to take advantage of the plethora of opportunities in the field of social media which allows the combination of these technologies with one's creative instincts.


The MS program in Computer Science offered by the University of Stony Brook will undoubtedly provide me with the right knowledge, skills, and experience to pursue that dream and exploit the opportunities to the fullest extent. The practical orientation of your in-depth coursework will allow me to not only acquire a clear understanding of the subject but also the skills to execute it. I am confident my exposure to such initiatives would quite augment my knowledge base and add tremendous value in enabling me to realize my professional goals 

“My life is better…. I bought a cow and used the remaining money to pay bail for my brother-in-law”, said Maureen, a 19-year old mother of one, when the GiveDirectly team followed up with her. Maureen is just one of the several thousands of people whose life was touched by GiveDirectly, a non-profit organization that uses mobile devices to transfer cash to low-income families in certain parts of Africa. The data scientists working at GiveDirectly used a completely novel approach comprising of four steps- Target, Audit, Transfer, and Monitor to facilitate this gracious endeavour. The colour of the roof acted as a parameter as they had already concluded that people with metal roofs were well to do as compared to people with thatched roofs. Using Google Maps, they would identify the location of a thatched roofed house. Then, the located house goes through an algorithmic image verification process to determine the level of poverty. Once the house has been identified as a genuinely intended beneficiary, the recipients obtain an SMS alert, post which they collect their money from the nearest mobile money agent. Finally, the recipients are monitored for successful delivery. The ingenious approach helped GiveDirectly eliminate manual inspection costs and help more families in need. A family in financial crisis could easily get money in an average of 32 minutes.

Reading about such interesting applications was when my fascination with the concept of data burgeoned. ‘If you torture the data long enough, it will confess’- I realized how true this statement of Ronald Coase was. With respect to making a wholesome career in this field, I intend on enrolling for the Master’s program in Computer Science at Stony Brook University. Graduating with a strong technical background after my Masters, I wish to establish myself as a competent Data Scientist, working with companies like Paypal, Facebook and Alphabet. In the long run, I intend to leverage the expertise gained through such impactful professional experiences to provide consultancy services to altruistic ventures like GiveDirectly that are working to make a difference in the lives of people in developing countries.

My undergraduate degree provided exposure to a multifaceted curriculum, thus laying a sound foundation for my plans for graduate studies. I gained in-depth awareness about concepts in calculus and statistical analysis through multiple courses in Applied Mathematics. Also, the courses in Data Structures and Algorithms, and Data Mining and Business Intelligence introduced me to different techniques for conducting searches, pre-processing data, as well as using clustering, classification and regression algorithms. In addition, the courses related to database management helped me gain knowledge about the nuances involved in storage and retrieval of copious amounts of data and normalizing it. Particularly significant was the course in Artificial Intelligence during which I learnt how to impart human-like thinking and decision-making capabilities to artificial agents through the use of techniques like partial order planning, forward and backward chaining, as well as search techniques like hill climbing, A* and simulated annealing. During the tenure of my undergraduate studies, I gained expertise in programming with C, C++, Java, and MATLAB and also actively participated in coding competitions on CodeChef and Hackerrank platforms. Having completed courses on Python and R programming at Coursera, I am currently pursuing an Oracle certification course on Advanced and Core Java to update my programming skills.

With my growing interest in the field of data science, I ventured into writing a Review paper on Security Intelligence with Big Data Analytics. The paper dealt with the working of Big Data Analytics and its usefulness in enterprise security by describing various intelligent software for security and then preparing a comparative study on the two most widely used software developed by IBM called the IBM QRadar and RSA. The paper’s main aim was to describe how Big Data Analytics helps track the anomaly in operations performed on a company’s data to identify a potential intruder, even though the pattern of the anomaly might be alien in terms of previous records. The paper has been accepted for publication by the International Journal of Advanced Research in Computer and Communication Engineering.

Projects during the undergraduate program served to broaden my domain knowledge through application of classroom concepts. One of them involved developing an aggregator website for pharmacies which enabled a user to locate the nearest and cheapest drugstore, check the available medications and their prices, and place orders. The database for the project was developed in MySql, and the front-end was designed using HTML and CSS. This project gave me my first brush with database functionalities and enhanced my skills in operations relating to databases.

Currently, I am working on my senior year project titled ‘3D Geometry using Augmented Reality’ which aims to develop an Android teaching-aid application using the Unity 3D and Vuforia software. The application will scan a drawing of a 3D figure that will act as a marker. This figure will get augmented on the screen and will provide the user with various functions to perform on the figure to develop a better understanding of the figure. The application also provides real-time videos and test series to evaluate an individual’s performance.

To develop a well-rounded personality, I actively engaged in various extra-curricular activities. I was a part of the inter-department dance competition held during my college festival ‘TRINITY’, a group event where we were awarded the 4th place in the entire college. Due to my innovative thought-process and technical skills, I managed to get selected as Head of the 50-member Creative Team for TRINITY where I was involved in developing the festival website. Through my creative inputs regarding website graphics, we were able to attract significant online traffic and registrations. As part of the National Service Scheme, I have organized several beach cleaning drives, blood donation campaigns, and campaigns to spread literacy among underprivileged children. Rewarding experiences such as these helped to develop my team and leadership skills, and the abilities to convincingly negotiate, resolve conflicts, and empathize with people.

At this stage, I believe pursuing a Master’s degree with focus on Data Science would catalyze my career progress, and the program offered at the Stony Brook University is perfectly tailored to my needs. I look forward to gaining a competitive edge through deepening my understanding of various statistical and analytical techniques and upgrading my technical skills through the well-structured curriculum. I am excited at the prospect of learning under erudite faculty like Professor Steven Skiena, whose numerous projects and research in the field of Sentiment, Text and Data Analysis has left me fascinated. Given a chance, I would hope to involve myself in his ongoing research endeavours. The excellent research facilities like the Data Science Lab would facilitate my research pursuits in my fields of interest like Data Mining, Data Analysis and Big Data. I look forward to mutually benefitting interactions with peers from culturally diverse backgrounds that would serve to broaden my perspective.

I hope the Admissions Committee recognizes my drive to excel in my academic and professional undertakings and issues an affirmative response. The honour of being associated with such an esteemed institution would be an additional motivation as I move towards realization of my ambitions.

We are currently in the midst of a technological and computing revolution that will drastically change our lives and potentially redefine what it means to be human. I am very excited at the prospect of devoting my long-term career to such a dynamic, fast advancing field. Ever since I was young, I have enjoyed dabbling with computers and experimenting with different applications. Because my own lifetime has essentially coincided with the rise of the modern computing industry, I can sense that there are still tremendous developments to come in this field. It was natural for me to choose Computer Science as my university major, and now, as I near the end of my undergraduate studies, it is my central goal to continue my education in a more competitive, elite, and international environment.
There is only one logical destination for my postgraduate studies: the USA, a country which stands at the center of the computing universe. The US has been the chief driver of innovation in computing, and the most innovative and successful companies in this field are based there. Studying overseas in the US will thus give me not only a greater range of professional skills but also a much broader, more international perspective. Therefore, I am applying to join your MSc in Computer Science program, commencing in the fall of 2013. I am convinced that I am well prepared for the challenges of studying in your master’s program because of my extensive academic and practical background, which I will describe in detail below.My academic experience thus far has provided me with a wide range of practical knowledge and skills that will be immensely useful when studying overseas at the graduate level. As a high school student, I excelled in courses related to physics, mathematics, and chemistry. I was fortunate during this time to have teachers who saw my interest in these subjects and encouraged me to continue broadening my scientific understanding and developing my analytical skills. It was due in large part to their guidance and advice that I chose to major in Computer Science in the university. As an undergraduate, I found that I deeply enjoyed learning about programming and systems analysis, and with my strong mathematics background I performed very well in courses concerning calculus, statistics, and differential equations. Now, in addition to my specialized knowledge of computer science, I have an appreciation for the breadth of this field and the nearly endless possibilities for further study.
In addition to the courses that I have taken, I have been very active outside of the classroom, participating in extracurricular activities and pursuing new experiences so as to push myself and broaden my horizons. For example, I took some time to travel across Europe by myself, an experience which, although at times difficult, ultimately made me a much more independent and confident person. I am now comfortable adapting to new situations and interacting with people who are different from me, qualities which will be tremendously useful when studying in the USA. Furthermore, when a my hometown was devastated by a natural disaster, I volunteered to help the victims as an organizer, which involved raising money and providing food, blankets, and other supplies as needed. Aside from the enhanced communication and leadership skills this experience offered me, what I most value is my newfound understanding of the importance of service and helping those in need. Finally, in the university, I was the publisher of the monthly newsletter of my department, a role I took on in order to meet new people and learn a new range of skills. As these experiences show, I am highly motivated and proactive at learning new skills and experiencing new things. This is precisely why I have decided to continue challenging myself by studying for a master’s degree in the USA.
Regarding my goals for the future, I plan to take what I learn in the USA and apply it to the computing industry in my native country. This industry is rapidly growing and shows great potential, yet compared to other, more advanced countries it is still in its relative infancy. By studying in your master’s program and possibly working for a short period in the USA, I expect to have the expertise, the perspective, and the experience necessary to lead our industry to a new era. I also have many friends with similar goals, and I hope that we can one day collaborate to put our country on the map as an innovative force in the computing world.
"The computer is the most remarkable tool we’ve ever come up with. It’s the equivalent of a bicycle for our
minds." - This quote by Steve Jobs has inspired me ever since I read about him in an article, when I was in school.
The sheer passion, dedication and insight to the future that Steve had has led to the growth of Apple, one of the
best technology companies in the world. The products created by Apple Inc. from the ipod, iphone to the ipad
have all been game-changers and have a fanatic fan-following all over the world.
My interest in computers was sparked by the story of how Steve created Apple as a technology firm with his
friends. This led me to opt for the Bachelor of Engineering in Computer Science course at Mercy Engineering
College. I rate the four years of study at the engineering college amongst the best years of my life, as I spent a
lot of time in the computer laboratory learning programming languages and concepts of hardware technology
and the components that make up a computer.
As part of the project of my final semester of study, I worked on developing a portable word-processing
application that would also work on low-cost Java-based mobile phones. In developing countries, smart-phones
are still a luxury and most people still use sub-US$25 mobile phones, which work on Java-based operating
systems. The external examiner for the project rated my project 4.5 out of a maximum of 5 rating points. I
completed the engineering course with a cumulative grade point average of 8.75 out of a maximum of 10
points.
I aspire to study Master of Science in Computer Science at the University of Melbourne because it has amongst
the most highly rated postgraduate programmes on offer, in Australia. Additionally, one of my lecturers Mr.
Avinash Tripathi, an alumnus of the University of Melbourne, recommended that I study there. I have complete
faith in Mr. Avinash’s recommendation, and I hope I will get a chance to study my dream course at Melbourne.
My ambition is to focus on creating a low-cost yet robust computing device that can offer the full functionalities
of a personal computer. This will work on open-source technology and will help everyone from students to
farmers, and the biggest USP of the device would be that it would run on a solar-powered battery.
The process of learning is continuous, and I hope that I would also be able to work on a doctoral programme at
the University of Melbourne. I hope I will get admission at the University of Melbourne and will be able to fulfil
my dreams.
I am a person who has always had a profound passion and fascination for areas requiring an analytical approach. Right from early days at school, Mathematics has intrigued me. The most challenging of all problems were my favorites and obtaining solutions to them would leave me with a sheer feeling of ecstasy. I always did and always would thrive on solving the most challenging problems. With a compelling desire to excel, hard work became my second nature. My aspiration for a technical career prompted me to take up one of the most coveted undergraduate program in Computer Engineering at Pune Institute of Computer Technology(http://www.pictsctr.edu), the best of such institutions. My own systematic & methodical approach towards finding a solution to any problem best suits this field.

I am a person who has always had a profound passion and fascination for areas requiring an analytical approach. Right from early days at school, Mathematics has intrigued me. The most challenging of all problems were my favorites and obtaining solutions to them would leave me with a sheer feeling of ecstasy. I always did and always would thrive on solving the most challenging problems. With a compelling desire to excel, hard work became my second nature. My aspiration for a technical career prompted me to take up one of the most coveted undergraduate program in Computer Engineering at Pune Institute of Computer Technology(http://www.pictsctr.edu), the best of such institutions. My own systematic & methodical approach towards finding a solution to any problem best suits this field. 
During the first two years of undergraduate study I studied courses like, Theory of Computer Science, Data structure and File Systems, Microprocessor Based Design and Computer Organization and Systems Programming.  These courses helped me gain a strong background in the fundamentals of Computer Science. These were aptly complemented by the laboratory courses.  The challenging assignments that were a part of the laboratory courses helped me to develop the required technical and programming skills. During the last two years of my study, I took advanced courses like Artificial Intelligence, Compiler Design, Databases, Operating Systems and Computer Networks.

My final year project entitled “COMPACT-A Flash File System”, was a sponsored project by KPIT Cummins Infosystems Ltd., Pune.Main objective of this project was to develop a file system for compact flash media, which is a small, removable mass storage device, with compact source code that can be used for embedded systems. The file system was designed to fit many kinds of embedded design requirements. The source code was developed using ANSI C so that was compiled using any compiler. COMPACT was made a high performance library by optimizing for speed, versatility and memory footprint. The end user can use this as a library by adding the path of the executable and using its API for performing various functions on the compact flash.
Realizing the importance of networking and network security and the abundant scope of research in this area, I did a seminar on “Security at Seven Layers”.  This stemmed from the need for secure transfer of information over the internet. The objective was to study the different vulnerabilities at each layer and means of providing security against them.

Although a focused academic, I balanced my scholastic efforts by participating in extra-curricular activities. I was on the managing committee of ‘Concepts 2004’, a national level project exhibition and competition, which focuses on providing a platform for interaction between industry experts and final year students by showcasing the talents of the latter in the form of their final year projects.

 Further studies were always a priority for me but it was my belief that before that I must gather some valuable work experience in order to gain a larger perspective of the industry. In keeping with this idea I joined Symantec Corporation (http://www.symantec.com), the world leader in security products, continue to work there. My work experience turned out to be extremely enriching for me on a host of levels. Working at Symantec has sharpened my research skills. It has inculcated in me team spirit and the ability to interact and work with both colleagues and seniors in a proactive manner. It has also helped me in accepting the challenges involved to expertise new domain and new technology, getting familiarized to new concepts and has developed a sense of professionalism in me. All in all my days at Symantec have served in focusing my interest towards research and development. Recently, the MySymantec Team, of which I am a part, won the prestigious ‘IT Symantec Team’ award.

While my present job at Symantec has helped me develop a thorough insight into project handling, the industry environment that I am currently in cannot quench my desire for research. I possess industry-hardened skills in computers, but I must build on these to achieve my goal of undertaking cutting-edge research in Database, Operating Systems and Computer Networks. I therefore believe that I must return to the academic world for further growth.

I have obtained information about the facilities and courses after a detailed study of university websites and have decided to apply to your university for graduate studies. I have learnt that several professors are engaged in research in areas that interest me. I would consider it a privilege to be taught by such renowned faculty. Your university offers an invigorating environment which will give a platform to explore my interests and a definite direction to my goals. I resolve to approach the program with enthusiasm and hard work and use the opportunity to advance my learning optimally.
When I began my undergraduate studies in Computer Science and Engineering, I had the opportunity to
expose myself to the full range of the department's courses. This stimulated my interest in various areas of
computer science and gave me invaluable academic insight. In addition, the professors of the department
have contributed to my development with their knowledge and personality and several influenced my goals
from the conversations we had. At this time I know that a researcher’s interests should span several areas in
order to have a broader view of his science and not simply being restricted to a specific area. However, I do
understand that, in order to be a successful researcher, it is necessary to be specialized in a field. As a
senior student, I also have my research interests. I am mostly interested in database issues and especially
in information retrieval, non-traditional multimedia databases and web-based databases. In addition,
I am interested in human-computer interaction and in quality of information issues due to their high
affiliation with the area of intelligent information retrieval.
My plans are to move ahead with graduate work, towards my ultimate degree objective: the Ph.D. degree.
The ultimate reason for obtaining a PhD degree is to continue working in a top-20 school in the United
States, as a professor.
I am confident that I am well suited for graduate studies in computer science for several reasons. I am hard
working and persistent, but what I really believe is my strong point that sets me apart from the other
applicants, is the fact that I’m very organized and meticulous; almost obsessed with the idea of perfection.
Being in the computer science world, I know very well that the level of graduate programs in the U.S. is by
far higher than in any other country. I am also highly aware that Columbia University has one of the most
distinguished graduate Computer Science departments in the United States. Especially in the area of
databases and in the area of digital libraries, which are my primary research interests, your department’s
research groups are of the strongest in the US and they are involved in various interesting projects. In
addition, the research interests of your outstanding faculty are poles of attraction for me as a scientist.
Finally, the extensive research facilities have served to kindle my interest in attending.
I would also like to mention that my interest in computers started when I was very young, during the last
years in primary school. I learned to program very young and during my teens I was working as a teacher of
programming in a private computer school. In addition, I was actively working in the field of databases as I
have created a G.I.S. database for the municipality of my hometown. Therefore, when the time came to
choose a University department for my studies, my choice came as a natural one. I opted for the top
Computer Engineering and Science department in Greece, the Computer Engineering and Informatics
Department (CEID) at the University of Patras and I managed to be admitted in an enviable rank (7th out of
120). 
The courses that I have attended were not only educational but thought provoking as well. It would be
space consuming to refer to all my undergraduate assignments and projects, since there is a description of
them in my resume, but I would like to mention the most important of them. Even in my early years as an
undergraduate, I was given the opportunity to develop programs for innovative projects (distance learning
through Internet/1995) under the supervision of Professor Theodore Papatheodorou. During the operating
systems course, I had implemented the file-system of a UNIX-like OS, using advanced data structures and
space and time efficient algorithms. Later, I developed programs that were emulating various distributed
protocols in an advanced simulator of distributed systems and performed performance analysis of them
under the supervision of Professor Paul Spirakis.
During my studies, I started working in Computer Technology Institute, a research institute strongly
affiliated with the CEID, and there I was given the opportunity to see how things actually work in a
professional environment. I have worked as a system administrator during my first years in the institute and
as a network manager later. During the last two years, I have worked on several research projects and
gained valuable theoretical and practical experience. Working as a professional, I believe that I have a
broader and more realistic perspective of computer science than the average student. Even while working
full-time, I managed to study and fare exceptionally with my studies and to be ranked first in my class.
The project that most influenced my interests was a project named “Odysseus” whose primary goal was to
employ advanced networking facilities to schools and to discover innovative methods in order to use the
educational software through the Internet. As I have worked for this project extensively, I realized the
immediate need for efficient methods for accessing the information (textual and multimedia) and the
necessity for easier-to-use tools to retrieve information that meets a user’s actual needs.
My diploma thesis, named “Algorithms for information retrieval” involves a review of the existing
methods in information retrieval and research on certain open problems in the area of text and multimedia
databases. Working under the supervision of Professor Athanassios Tsakalidis, I am trying to invent and
implement methods for evaluating the content of documents that include nontextual information such as
images, sound and video.
Finally, I would like to mention that I am well aware of the demands and long hours of study that a
graduate school imposes. Of course, I am also aware that the school setting would provide an important
geographical and cultural change for an international student such as me. Nevertheless, I know that this
change will be beneficial for me in many ways, academically, linguistically and emotionally. I know, too,
that I have the will, the intelligence and the stamina to succeed in this exciting academic experience. I hope
you will give me the privilege of continuing my studies at your distinguished institution.
I wish to join the graduate program at Penn State University for a Master of Computer Science.
My purpose for join this program seems to have grown on me over time. But I now feel that I would
be an excellent student here at Penn State.
From an early age, I have always been abstract thinker. This ability often lends itself to
engineering and for me it was no different. My family was able to recognize this in me and they
encourage it. In grade school, I would find myself taking advance tracks in mathematics and computer
science. I felt that I excelled in both these subjects. This lead to me applying, attending, and achieving
my undergraduate degree in Computer Engineering at Penn State Behrend.
After my undergraduate graduation, I found myself wondering about what to do next. I knew
that I could do either attend graduate school or dip my feet into the working world. I looked inside
myself and I found that wanted to apply my education. Therefore, I made a decision to join the
working force. Hence, I received a job at SRI International in State College, PA. I did however feel
that I could continue my education.
About two years after my graduation, I was not sure that I would be able to join a graduate
program anymore. Mostly because I had felt that I had been away for too long. It was the
encouragement of my fellow co-workers to try some graduate classes that finally bolstered my
confidence. Along with my co-workers, we enrolled in the undeclared graduate program. Each class I
took reminded me of my undergraduate days and how much I like learning new ideas and concepts. I
feel now that I can achieve a Masters degree and maybe in the future even a Doctorate.
In addition to my rediscovered vigor for learning, a graduate degree would help me greatly in
the workplace. There have been countless instances over the time I have been taking classes again
where my studies aided my work. It has even given my co-workers and I the seed to grow new and
exciting software projects that have been a benefit to my company.
My intent is to increase my own education, feed my curiosity, and drive to be something great.
I hope that the reviewer sees my purpose and desire for applying to graduation program here at Penn
State. Thank you for your time and careful review of my credentials.

The constant increasing applications of computers in technological development demand more efficient networking. Coming from a background of Computer Science Engineering, I have developed a fascination to probe into the arena of Networking in general and Computer Networks in particular which posses a challenging task in interconnecting PC’s and Laptops. This cultivated my interest to take Computer Science Engineering as my major in my graduate studies.

I always put my endeavors and all out efforts to excel in every walk of my life. A good career in computer science and engineering can only be built above the firm foundation of a good education. Apart from the impressive infrastructure and research facilities offered at University of Texas, the courses like Database systems, Data Mining, Software Engineering and Operating Systems really interested me because I believe that I can specialize in databases and data mining concepts with the knowledge that I can gain from these courses. Above all, it would be a blessing to be able to learn under the guidance of the professors at University of Texas. I am excited about entering into this next phase of my life and it is my hope and belief that I would be able to make a positive contribution to the University.

There is a saying, which says, “The only thing Permanent in life is Change”. This perfectly holds true to the world of Computer Science Engineering where novel ideas are not a novelty. It is this novelty that entices me to this field and gives me a deep sense of professional pride. In this context, I would like to pursue my graduation in Computer Science Engineering, which not only supplements the knowledge that I possess but also provides a strong platform for my future career aspirations and goals.

I have always believed that one should never give up the habit of asking questions and this habit has been an important facet of my creativity. I seek to invent new ideas by applying the basic principles of an existing theory in uncommon ways.

However, I found that I have no uncertainty in proceeding along a path that I have been planning over the last 5 years. I have originated from a family where the highest priority was always given to good education. Blessed with schooling from one of the premier institutions of India, the Satya Sai Vidya Vihar in Visakhapatnam, I was strongly motivated to pass my X class exams with over 79% marks.

After successful completion of my school studies, I got admitted to Narayana IIT Academy , which is one of the most reputed Colleges in Andhra Pradesh, to which State I belong .I obtained over 86.2 % marks in the Intermediate ( plus Two ) exams. Later I joined the GITAM Institute of Technology, affiliated to the GITAM University in Visakhapatnam, which is a top class University in India in general and my native state Andhra Pradesh in particular. I took Computer Science Engineering as my major in the undergraduate program. During the course of the study I was exposed to various subjects like ‘C’, Computer Networks, Java and Data Structures and gained a lot of expertise in them, etc.


The inter connection, management and maintenance of networks helped me to get acquainted with the subject of Networking at high levels. Having acquired reasonable knowledge after completing a course in Database 2 certification course, I am passionately eager to learn the subject in depth; I was fascinated to explore advanced knowledge in this Cyber World. My Cumulative Grade Point Average up to the VI Semester (III year II Semester) is 8.81 out of 10.


I worked in a group project titled “User Support Portal “for the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant under the guidance of Sri T.V.Kameswara Rao. This project centers on the creation of a portal which performs an array of tasks useful both for the management and also the users (or customers) of the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant which is a prime steel producing companies in India. For the back-end of the project, my team used Oracle 10g and for designing the front-end, we used JSP (Java Server Pages) and concepts of Java to execute the code.


My prodigious appetite for knowledge started from the moment, I was trained to write the series of English alphabets on the sands of the grounds of my kindergarten school. This thrust spurred me to work assiduously till this part of my career and this will perpetually continue to stir me in achieving greater goals. I am fully aware of the fact that I have miles to go in this long distance race for acquiring higher knowledge. Although I believe that there is no substitute for hard work and strong working knowledge. Training in a reputed university like yours will give a big boost to my aspirations and Academic Pursuits 

In addition to my regular studies at various levels from Primary till now; I am taking regular classes in Kuchipudi dancing, one of the oldest and most traditional forms of dancing in my Country. Especially during my School days at Satya Sai Vidya Vihar, I actively associated myself with various Community Service activities aimed at the amelioration of the oppressed, suppressed, depressed and the under - privileged sections of people , which was the main motto of my Alma Mater. During my Under Graduate studies, I allocate good time for the same purpose being a member of the National Service Scheme.

Coming from a family where everyone has excelled in academic achievements, I have developed a keen desire to pursue my graduate studies and research in Computer Science Engineering in a University of Excellence, which will provide me an opportunity to work with most modern and sophisticated equipment and intellectual environment by which I would be able to realize my dreams of exploring and contributing new vistas in the chosen field. Your institute, which is reputed to possess the above, besides having a host of eminent professors on its faculty, gives me wonderful opportunity to hone my skills and acquire knowledge.

I believe that “Accomplishments lie within the reach of those who reach beyond themselves”. I am confident of making my own humble contribution in enhancing the image and reputation of your Esteemed University in the years to come. Financial assistance from your University will give me a tremendous morale boost in this long pursuit to achieve excellence. I eagerly look forward to be a part of your Academic Community.
When I think about the different realms of science and technology, it is hard to think of a domain that
is going to change the world as much as advanced software will, in the decades ahead.
If Ray Kurzweil is right in his book “Singularity is Near”, we are near the end of ‘Epoch 4’ (Technology)
and entering into ‘Epoch 5’ (The Merger of Human Technology with Human Intelligence). In
the distant future, as Ray points out in his book - advanced technology will enable us to have an artificial
heart, knees, and almost any other part of the human body. Paralysis due to spinal injuries could be
overcome by using specialized electronics that would allow paraplegics to regain control over their muscles.
While Ray’s ideas are interesting and exciting to think about, in the near future I foresee computer
science being used as a tool, as mathematics is used, for all the fields of science. It has always been
important for physicists, chemists and biologists to have some understanding of specific areas of mathematics
to express their ideas, to write down formulas, and to make predictions. Similarly, in the near
future, computer software will become an integral part of the research to create new breakthroughs.
For instance, all fields of science collect and analyze a large amount of data. Finding patterns in large
amounts of data has always been a stumbling block. However, by using state of the art software for data
mining and machine learning, hidden trends and patterns may emerge that can help increase understanding
and solve problems. Similarly, with the vast amounts of data in genomics, we can use various data
mining techniques to find patterns that advance our understanding of how the human body functions,
including understanding some of the brain’s intricacies. These patterns could also help with disease
diagnosis and possible cures.
I feel excited about what Ray describes as ‘Epoch 5’ where the focus shifts toward merging technology
with human intelligence to create an age of Artificial Intelligence. I want to contribute to that age
of evolution. Thus, a M.S. degree in Computer Science (with emphasis on Artificial Intelligence) is the
logical culmination of my passion for Artificial Intelligence and Computer Science in general.
I earned my undergraduate degree in Computer Science [Elective - Artificial Intelligence] at the University
of Pune with the grade ‘First Class with Distinction’. Also, I was the topper of the undergraduate
program at my school. Prior to my undergraduate degree, I have been the topper in Mathematics and
Computer Science at my high school.
In 2007, I received the ‘Best Student’ award for the highest achievement in academics and for my
contributions to the school.
During my first year in the undergraduate program, I co-founded the Association of Computer Engineering
Students (ACE) at my college, and I headed the organization during my junior and senior
years in the positions of The General Secretary. Also in my senior year, I was the President of ‘Digital
Renaissance’, the technical festival organized by the CS department. It holds the record for highest
number of participants and sponsors in the history of the college.
Over the course of my undergraduate program, I participated in various programming contests and
won many of them. I always enjoyed the practical aspects of my studies, and that is one of the reasons
why my marks in lab exercises, term work, oral examinations, practical examinations, and projects averaged
above 85%, the highest in my school. I also developed various small software tools for my school,
such as a web-based system to conduct online examinations, an online course repository, and a small
lightweight console for remote manageability of desktops.
During the final year of my undergraduate degree, I received an internship opportunity at BMC Software,
to work on their Marimba products, the product written by the creators of the Java language (Arthur
van Hoff, Jonathan Payne, and Sami Shaio). At the end of my internship, I was offered to join the
Marimba core R&D team.
While working on Marimba, I learned various aspects of building large and scalable systems, protocols
and algorithms for efficient and secure content distribution over network, and managing a heterogeneous
infrastructure. I was also actively involved in the research and design of a self- enabling infrastructure
for Intel AMT Agent Presence, an efficient data structure for sending large statistics reports over WAN,
and better management of OS runtime processes. I have written white-papers and technical documents
which have been incorporated into the products. At BMC, I developed many of the key Marimba features
such as ‘Marimba’s support to Windows Server 2008 and Windows 7’, ‘Marimba’s package deployment
support to x64 architecture (native x64 packaging support)’, ‘CRS(Common Reboot Service) framework’,
‘Policy based power management’, ‘Intel AMT support’; ‘Marimba AMT Java SDK for Channel
developers’, ‘Session migration of marimba client to better manage installation of user application when
migrating from session 0’, ‘Certificate management’ and ‘Code signing module of Marimba (rewrote in
order to move from using phaos library to RSA library)’. I also played a major role in porting Marimba
Client from Java Runtime 1.4 to Java Runtime 1.6 on Windows, Linux, Solaris, HP-UX and AIX.
Throughout my stay at BMC, I had the opportunity to mentor many undergraduate and graduate
interns. I mentored a few academic projects, mostly in collaboration with the CS department at my
undergraduate school. I also delivered many guest lectures.
A few months ago, I founded a company, Cathysoft, with the idea of writing a clinically useful program
to overcome the limitations of conventional computer-aided diagnosis. However, after doing some
initial research on simulation of human reasoning based on patient data for diagnosing diseases – I realized
that I need to gain more experience and exposure to an excellent research environment. Thus I
decided to pursue a masters degree.
I want to make sure that the company I am building is around for a long term and with this goal
in mind I decided to study further in an institute that help me further my goals. I am looking for a
school that has the world-class study and research atmosphere, the best faculty, exceptional peers, and
excellent infrastructure, an institute that can facilitate resources to help attain my ambitions.
Stanford University has the unique distinction of being at the forefront of innovation and producing
entrepreneurs. The university is the birthplace for the companies like Google, Yahoo, Sun Microsystems,
HP, Cisco, Intel, VMWare, Electronic Arts, and many more..., and is known in the world as ‘The Place
for Startups’. Thus, Stanford University is my choice for the graduate studies. I am very optimistic
about the future of my start-up, by being there. At Stanford, I hope to get an opportunity to meet the
top management of some international high-tech start-ups and gain hands-on experience in starting and
running a new enterprise. It would help me understand the issues and policies that affect the climate for
innovation and start-up success around the world.

On my career plan, I hope to work in Computer Labs as research scientists or be a professor in
university. After accumulating enough research experience, I will consider turning into Management field
or a consultant. If I have enough resources, I'll try to create my own business.
Absorbing new technologies is always a pleasure to me. Since I like to be ahead of others in knowing
new technologies, so I choose to study further. Studying abroad has been my dream since I was in junior
high school. And I think contacting with the whole world broaden one's view.
First of all, I wish to get a Ph. D. degree on Media Arts and Sciences, then I will pursuing for another
degree on MBA, or other related fields. While I study further in the field of Media Arts and Sciences, I
hope to implement my ideas in the best environment, including a good studying atmosphere, the best
faculties, superior students, and good computing facilities. I choose your department because you offers
the best environment based on those conditions.
For helping to achieve my final goal of study the field, books, papers and source codes will be the main
resources I use. I'll like to improve my programming skills and experience by writing more programs. In
the rest of this statement, I'll show you that I am well prepared for entering your department to pursue
for a degree on Media Arts and Sciences.
During high school, I spent most of my time on extracurricular activities. I joined Forensic Art club,
Student Association, Mathematics club, and Graduate Students Association. I was awarded the honor for
"Excellent performance in group life training" when I graduated from my high school. I entered
Mathematics Department of National Central University. For broadening my knowledge, I chose courses
in different areas of Mathematics and Computer Science. These courses ranges from Analysis, Algebra,
Topology, Differential Equations to Wavelet and Fuzzy in Mathematic area, and Data Structure,
Network, Assembly Language to Security in Computer Science field.
Working is my main source of learning. I worked in the Mathematics Computing Labrotary as a System
and Network Administrator for 3 years. I was in charge of 4 Sun workstations, 1 DEC Alpha, and 40
PC. I established our WWW server in both Chinese and English, a collection about the Math resources
on the web, which is the first and the best one in Taiwan. The editor of "HopeNet CD-ROM Monthly"
found my article on the network and then invited me for writing columns introducing newest technology
of WWW, which lasted for 14 months until I entered the army. I also work for the "College Entrance
Exam Center", teaching WWW and HTML, and developed some Web-based remote database system,
like "Exam result query system".
As an active character of Taiwan Academic NETwork (TANET), I contributed a lot during college
years. The FTP server of my department is the first CPAN mirror site in Taiwan, which I maintained. I
also maintained a Perl resource homepage written in Chinese. I have translated Xanadu FAQ into
Chinese, while Perl FAQ is still being working on. I am the first who introduced HyperNews for TANet
users. More than 400 articles posted or followed on different network newsgroups. You can refer to my
resume attached for works I did. After I graduated, I joined the army. I served in the Data Processing
section of Management Information Center in Headquarter of Combined Service Forces. My job is
administrating TCP/IP network, IBM RS/6000 workstations and Netware servers. I teach Unix and
network. I am also responsible for maintaining their Web server. I established their DNS, DHCP, FTP
and E-mail services using a few PCs running FreeBSD. Lately, I joined a logistic information system
project, offering advice on network architecture and administrating Oracle database.
I have strong background on Unix, database and Network and experience on writing articles for
magazines. My main interests are AI, Network, Security, Cryptography and Information Systems.
Intelligent Agent is one topic I am interested in, for example. In general, combining AI into Network
Information Retrival Systems (like WWW, and HyperWave) will be the main field of my specialization.
Cryptography, and Multimedia are also preferred.
"Things that think" project draws my attention while I am browsing your homepage. I have been thinking
about the question about "Locating Multimedia Resource". That will involve the question about locate,
identify, and serach for data other than text, like graphics, video, and sound. I would like to concentrate
on this question if I can get the admission
My primary research objective and interest is in the area of computer graphics. I am currently
studying computer science at Princeton University, and I am actively involved in a research project that is
developing an automated system to assist archaeologists in reconstructing excavated frescoes. My work
focuses in particular on analyzing fracture patterns from images of frescoes and developing a model of
brittle fracture. This project has opened my eyes to a broad range of research in computer graphics and
motivated me to undertake further study through a Ph.D. program. I am especially interested in problems
of visualization, computational photography, and simulation, but I am open to trying new ideas as well.
Under the supervision of Professor Thomas Funkhouser, I conducted research that analyzed
fracture patterns observed in frescoes excavated from Akrotiri (modern Santorini, Greece), an ancient
Bronze Age city destroyed by earthquakes around the 17th century B.C. I developed a two-stage
processing pipeline for this purpose. In the first stage, I used an interactive program to trace detailed
fragment boundaries in high-resolution images of manually reconstructed frescoes. The output was a
polygonal mesh, with each polygon representing a fragment. Next, I implemented geometric analysis
algorithms to study the shapes and contacts of the fragment boundaries. Specifically, I produced statistical
distributions of the lengths of cracks, the angles at which cracks met, the fragment areas, and the
adjacencies found in fragment arrangements. The main contribution of my study is a statistical model for
crack patterns of fractured frescoes, which can guide scoring functions used in computer-assisted
fragment reconstruction algorithms and also suggest a generative model about fracture processes.
Last summer, I participated in a workshop at the archaeological site of Akrotiri, where I presented
my study and learned about the diverse research that others had undertaken (both technical and nontechnical).
The work ranged from scanning of fresco fragments or constructing virtual reality models of
the ancient city to historical interpretation of the fresco paintings. It was an eye-opening experience; I was
able to place my research in the context of a broader study and application. In addition, I was motivated
by the feedback I received to plan a direction for my research in senior year.
I recently published my study at the VAST International Symposium on Virtual Reality,
Archaeology and Cultural Heritage. I am continuing the research this year, implementing methods to
verify the suggested model of the fracture process by simulating factures using physics-based heuristics. I
am also collaborating with a graduate student to record and analyze the actual fracture process with a
high-speed video camera. In addition, I plan to utilize the statistical model to improve existing
reconstruction algorithms and to develop new algorithms that reverse the fracture process.
These experiences attracted me to various research problems in applications for cultural heritage,
such as scanning, modeling, visualization, computational photography, and user interface dealing with 3D
data. In my graduate study, I wish to do research in the area of computer graphics with broad applications
in other disciplines, including but not limited to cultural heritage, such as medicine or education.
For these reasons, the EECS department of MIT is especially attractive to me. I am intrigued by
several interesting research projects carried on by its faculty members. In particular, Professor Wojciech
Matusik’s and Professor Frédo Durand’s research application in Virtual Humans is fascinating; their work
on “Hair Photobooth: Geometric and Photometric Acquisition of Real Hairstyles” and Matusik’s work on
“A Statistical Model for Synthesis of Detailed Facial Geometry” were especially interesting to read. My 
research interest has also led me to follow other works of Durand’s. I especially enjoyed reading the paper
about “Procedural Modeling of Structurally-Sound Masonry Buildings.” It would be a privilege to study
in the EECS department of MIT under the guidance of its remarkable faculty.
I have enjoyed being able to apply what I learned in classes such as computer graphics and
computational geometry to my research. On the other hand, I have also cultivated a broad interest in other
areas, such as photography and art, as a source of inspiration. I seek different kinds of creativity in
engineering and in art; both come from the persevering effort driven by the will to create something new
and better. It is this creative will that I wish to pursue in MIT's Ph.D. program and afterwards as a
researcher in academia. My learning experience under the guidance of my advisor has convinced me not
only of the potential of research but also of the value of teaching. I have also enjoyed working as an
undergraduate teaching assistant for introductory computer science courses. Through my graduate studies,
I expect to become, and will work hard to be, an effective researcher and teacher. 
My experience hanging around CSAIL (Computer Science an Artificial
Intelligence Laboratory) at MIT contributes to my strong desire to pursue
advanced study. Were it not for my exposure to computer science at CSAIL
as an undergraduate, I would not even be in the field of computer science
today. I love the open academic culture, where people freely and enthusiastically
talk about their research. Aside from classes and projects, I’ve learned
the most from hanging around my advisor’s office, participating in discussions
with other students, professors, and visiting researchers about various
topics such as differential geometry, how fly embryos develop, computer architectures,
and theories on how different parts of the mind communicate
with each other. The discussions about human intelligence and learning
were particularly fascinating. From observing and talking to TAs, graduate
students and professors, I knew that research was the life for me.
An experience that has prepared me for graduate research is my master’s
thesis work with VMware. For my thesis, I implemented system level x86
binary translation from 32-bit mode to 64-bit mode, which enables running
32-bit operating systems in 64-bit mode. Technical challenges aside, this
project taught me how to work on and maintain a long-term project that
involves many other people. While ordinary undergraduate projects rarely
exceed a term in length or involve more than 5 people, this project involved
understanding and building upon an intricate body of knowledge built up
over 10 years by 30 experts. As an undergrad, I was always able to fit all
the details of the projects I was working on into my head. In order to make
progress on my thesis work, I learned to work with complex systems (which
may not fit in my mind all at once) by constantly asking myself questions,
generating and verifying hypotheses, such that I am quick to notice and
investigate when a system or model behaves in an unexpected way. This
skill of asking the right questions when given an intricate problem has already
helped me quickly absorb existing ideas, and will continue to help me as I
research new ideas.
The main skills I bring to the table as a researcher are my energy to
explore and persistence. A good example of this is when, motivated by the
opportunity of freedom to direct my own interests and studies, I decided to
come to the U.S. for high school and college, leaving my parents and brother
in Taiwan. With persistence, I adapted to life and studies in the U.S. and
had an excellent time during high school and college.
Finally, I demonstrated my energy to explore when I entered the field of
computer science. As with fencing, I had no exposure to computer science
before I came to MIT. Most of my peers were already very experienced in
the field of their choosing, and had been exposed to their field of interest at
a very young age; the decision to leap into an unfamiliar field was a little
daunting. However, I did not let worries about my relative inexperience
prevent me from entering computer science. Since my decision to pursue CS,
not only have I done well in all of my graduate-level computer science courses,
my master’s thesis work has advanced virtualization, resulted in useful code
that will be released next year (2010), and I was able to present my work at
the 2009 International Symposium on Code Generation and Optimization’s
software and hardware co-design workshop in Seattle, WA.
My energy to explore defines everything I do in life, academic, and even
non-academic pursuits. Matching this energy is the persistence to follow
through. While many things interest me, I can make significant progress
by concentrating on mastering one thing at a time. The ability to take
intellectual risks and follow them through is especially important in research,
where it often takes a very long time to get results.
Because I’ve enjoyed computer science immensely and I often wish I were
introduced to the field sooner, I am planning a computer science workshop for
an event called in the spring called “Expanding Your Horizons” (EYH), with
the goal of stimulating interest in math and science in middle school girls. In
the workshop, the girls will work in groups to create efficient algorithms for
solving puzzles such as Nim, spanning trees, and shortest path. Afterwards,
we’ll explain a few common solutions and the concept of induction over invariants.
The girls will hopefully depart excited by how computer science
can be applied to efficiently solve problems in their day-to-day life. Furthermore,
a special session for parents will introduce educational and career
opportunities involving math and science.
In the long term, I want to have a research position at a university or
company. While I have had some success with industry-related research, the
experience has only encouraged my desire to push my intellectual boundaries.
Advanced graduate study at a university gives me the opportunity to take
more exciting intellectual risks. One of my long term goals is to contribute
to understanding human intelligence and learning. I hope to find an area of
computer science that I not only enjoy, but can be applied to further this
long term goal. The NSF fellowship will allow me to explore different fields
and different research approaches in computer science to find which one is
best for me. An NSF fellowship will also allow me to focus more on research
instead of teaching assistantships. While I have enjoyed being a teaching
assistant in the past, as a teaching assistant I put in well over the 20 hours
per week required on testing interesting assignments and grading. An NSF
fellowship will not only allow me to choose my research projects, but also
allow me to work more on research. With an NSF fellowship, I can choose
which teaching assistantship positions I take, such that when I do teach, the
subject matter is enriching for me as well as for the students.
Working with computer graphics and simulations gives me immense sense of satisfaction. Hence I
have always made careful choices throughout my career path to learn more about graphics even when
the knowledge was hard to acquire at times. Since the first year of college I voluntarily started working
as a programmer with the rendering team of a local game development company as an unpaid employee
for more than a year for the sake of learning - an anecdote that certainly speaks for my self-motivation.
Generally, I am interested in applying mathematical tools in computer graphics and thereby producing
accurate images for correct visual interpretations. Apart from accuracy, real-time aspects of computer
graphics are of paramount importance as they allow users to visualize data interactively and therefore
I am also interested in GPU methods. At this point, upon finishing an exciting research based Masters
degree, I am very keen about pursuing a Ph.D in the field of Computer Graphics and my areas of interest
are Realistic Rendering, Fluid Simulations and Computational Photography.
Derivative Estimation on Regular Lattices: From the very get-go of my Masters degree I started
doing research on graphics and my supervisor Dr. Torsten M¨oller introduced me to the intriguing world
of non-standard sampling lattices like Body-Centric Cubic (BCC) lattice. BCC is the optimal sampling
lattice for band-limited functions as it requires 30% less data to reconstruct a 3D image yielding the
same quality, yet faster, compared to the commonly used Cartesian-Cubic (CC) lattice. On the other
hand a robust method for estimating derivatives of different orders, which are required to solve Partial
Differential Equations (PDE), was not known for such non-standard lattices and often these quantities
would be approximated rather na¨ıvely with little mathematical foundations. I picked up this open
problem and formulated a generic framework, based on the 1D work of M¨oller et al. (1997), that works
in arbitrary dimensions to approximate a given derivative up to a specified polynomial order with a given
filter/stencil size and in all regular lattices. We demonstrated the framework in the light of improved
shading qualities in volume rendering when gradients were estimated using our framework on both BCC
and CC lattices. We published a paper on this work in the Transactions of Visualization and Computer
Graphics (TVCG) titled “Toward High-Quality Gradient Estimation on Regular Lattices.” My previous
work experience (as indicated in my CV) on projects from game companies like Electronic Arts and
Turbine prior to joining Masters proved to be invaluable for this research not only in terms of graphics
but also in terms of designing and dealing with large code-bases as I implemented a very optimized
volume Ray-Tracer from scratch with support for arbitrary lattices.
Edge-Aware Anisotropic Diffusion: The above work opens up the door to numerically solve PDEs
on non-standard lattices with higher order stencils which I am interested to study further in my Ph.D. In
the second year of my Masters, my co-supervisor Dr. Steven J. Ruuth introduced me to implicit surfaces
and level-set methods that are extensively used in graphics simulations as discussed, for example, in the
famous book of Stanley Osher and Ronald Fedkiw. This immediately made me wonder about how well
these methods would perform on lattices other than CC. As a first attempt to implement a PDE on a
BCC lattice I picked up the well known Perona and Malik’s anisotropic diffusion. But tuning the diffusion
parameter that is supposed to preserve “edges” in a scalar function, a property that has little to do with
the underlying lattice, frustrated me very quickly and I wondered if the anisotropic diffusion itself could
be re-modelled. We combined ideas from 2D image processing and took into account factors that only
arise in 3D and re-modelled the diffusion equation where “edges” would be defined by the directional
second derivative. This gave rise to a diffusion equation that is much less sensitive to parameters and
is similar to Weighted Mean Curvature Motion yet critically different. Another paper was published on
this work titled “Edge-Aware Anisotropic Diffusion for 3D Scalar Data,” in the proceedings of IEEE
Visualization 2010. I gave a talk on this paper in the last IEEE VisWeek 2010 at Salt Lake City, Utah,
USA. This paper was voted third in rank, among 84 IEEE Vis and IEEE InfoVis papers, in the VisImp
competition, organized by Kitware Inc. It is believed that the most popular papers will be implemented
in the widely used software Visualization Toolkit (VTK). However, in this paper we implemented our
novel anisotropic diffusion in only CC lattice as we did not yet have a theoretical foundation on the
stability of the evolution of the PDE in terms of the “time-stepping” ∆t and hence there would be no
normalized basis for comparison between CC and other non-standard lattices.
Current Work: Later we analyzed the stability of the above anisotropic diffusion theoretically using
Courant-Friedrichs-Lewy (CFL) condition on arbitrary lattices and found that the theoretical analysis
agrees with the empirical study we had done in our paper. With this analysis in hand combined with
the previous work on derivative estimation we are ready to implement the above anisotropic diffusion on
non-standard lattices like BCC. This also allows us to compare results with that of the CC lattice on a
normalized basis and there is a good potential for a third journal paper.
Teaching: Teaching is an integral part of research as it hones the skills of presenting results in a
way that others understand. I have been appointed Teaching Assistant (TA) several times during my
undergraduate degree, specially in Mathematics and Digital Logic courses. During my Masters degree
I have held a TA position twice for an undergraduate graphics course at Simon Fraser University titled
“Introduction to Graphics” taught by Dr. Torsten M¨oller. I have also held three lectures of this course on
Dr. M¨oller’s behalf when he was out of town. Apart from that I have also tutored several undergraduate
students in Mathematics, C/C++, Matlab and graphics programming.
Conclusions: “The more I learn, the more I learn how little I know” - and that certainly makes me
more curious to learn more. Moreover, my general knack for innovations and working on original research
serve as key motivations to pursue a Ph.D in Computer Graphics and later adopt a research career in
the field. It is hard to foretell what exact area I will end up working on but I am interested to work
on the computational aspects of Computer Graphics including Realistic Rendering, Fluid Simulations,
or Computational Photography. Speaking of Fluid Simulations and having evidences that better results
are often obtained on non-standard lattices, I might be curious to study the techniques, lot of which
were developed at Stanford, on these lattices. However, I am also open to work on other interesting
computational aspects of Computer Graphics. Furthermore, Stanford Graphics Lab is a place of diversity
with great faculties and students expanding research in many areas, including the ones of my interest,
with excellent collaboration with the industry for a better access to real-world problems. Given my keen
interest in graphics, complemented by my research background and work experience in the industry, I
believe I can significantly contribute to the field during my Ph.D and beyond.
In my life is a narrative that runs parallel to our global story, although it is uniquely my own. Born into a family of Jehovah’s Witnesses, my mind was shaped to focus on and endlessly discover the ways in which the world is falling apart. Armageddon was always just a few years away, and the systems built by man were hopelessly imperfect. At 25, I belong to a generation familiar with accelerating complexity. We are post Cold War children; 9–11 watchers; inheritors of globalism; formed by the Internet. By my teenage years I had lost faith in my religion and searched for meaning in philosophy, poetry, and music. I identified with the archetypal Thinker and longed to live a simple life devoted to thinking, letting the world fall a part around me. Because, frankly, while I stopped believing in religion, I had not stopped believing we live in the “End of Days”.

I entered University as a Philosophy major, enthusiastic to pursue the mysterious and metaphysical. By my second week of college, my father had committed suicide. I don’t bring this up in hope of pity, but to give some context on my choices and background, which influence me to this day. The hopelessness I felt after my father’s death made studying Philosophy unbearable; I needed a means to find solutions, not another way to question my reality. While I was given the choice to take a break from school, I decided to spend the second semester of my freshman year taking art and music classes. In practicing art I reflected deeply on what I wanted my life to mean, letting my subconscious work on my grief while my hands reflected the creativity I desired in life.

One morning, during that semester, I woke up and had a strong intuition that I would find my purpose on that day. Within two hours of waking up, I had. While speaking with a friend, I noticed a dreamcatcher on the wall of her roommate. The dreamcatcher stirred inspiration in me so much, I took the idea of it seriously. In a moment, I decided that I would pursue engineering so that I might one day be a neural engineer. My hope was to catch dreams as they played through the mind, displaying them for the dreamer to see once they awoke.

Through the next 4 years of college I switched into biomedical engineering and took on research in a neuroscience lab. I became a Mellon Mays fellow and experimented with wearable consumer technology that interfaced with the brain. And I integrated my creative streak by taking on roles in design and engineering projects that utilized art and explored meaning.

My passion for dreaming has remained, but I decided to pursue a career in consulting after finishing up my bachelors, because I think there are lessons in professional work that are crucial to the practice of research and development. As an engineering intern at Two Bit Circus I developed a passion for building systems that educate and develop young minds through Play. As a software consultant at Accenture, I have developed a respect for the process of teamwork, especially across the borders of government and industry. This has cultivated in me an interest in the development of ‘Smart Cities,’ principally as they relate to the people that inhabit them.

Recently I have dived into working on virtual reality development, by taking a course with Udacity. Through Udacity I came to find out about the Georgia Tech Online Masters in Computer Science. The program immediately piqued my interest because I can complete it while working, it is affordable, and it is geared towards those who wish to learn Computer Science even if they don’t have a background in it. This makes evident that Georgia Tech values inclusion in tech and access to education, both of which matter deeply to me.

Marc Andreessen said in 2011, “Software is eating the world.” This is true at the nexus of my passions, so learning its practice is a logical next step. With this degree, I hope to build systems that capture dreams, educate kids, and empower citizens.

Thank you for the consideration.
A fascination for Science & Technology and keen interest in the ever-growing world of technology motivated me to take up engineering. I choose to major in Electrical& Electronic Engineering with an intense urge to delve into the challenging field. During my under graduation program I learned the various fundamentals of Electrical& Electronics Engineering which together with practical course work reinforce interest. 

Right from my school, I had a penchant towards Mathematics, Science and research in general. This basic interest led me to take up Mathematics, Physics and Chemistry as my major subjects in high school. As a part of my Physics project, I had constructed logic gates and simple latches using basic circuit elements. I was so astounded by the Power of Electrical & Electronics. This interest made me to take Electrical& Electronic Engineering. I would like to present my past performance as my credentials for my success in my future endeavors. My innate strength has been my quantitative and analytical abilities which instilled me a special interest for mathematical and physics. I had opted the same in my 10+2 with good marks. I was placed in the top 15% of one lakh who took engineering entrance examination. This performance helped me in getting admission into Sri Saradhi Institute of Engineering, Nuzvid, India. 

During the course of my undergraduate study I was exposed to various courses with applications like Electromagnetic field, Control systems, Power electronic, Electrical measurements, Linear Integrated Circuits, Electronics, Pulse and digital circuits, Computer methods in power system control, Digital Signal Processing, Power systems(1to 3), Electro mechanics(1 to 3) Micro processors & Micro Controllers, High voltage engineering, Modeling of power system components, Utilization of electrical energy enhanced my subject. I secured good results in my engineering. I was well versed in programming languages like C, C++ & Java. During my final year I decided to do project in Machine cutting using micro controller. 

From my kinder garden my medium of instruction is English. I had written GRE and got 1060 score, which adds to my English language proficiency. Excellence in any sphere of life can be achieved trough determination, hard work, preference and dedication. Yet lack of in depth knowledge of the subject leaves the conceptual skills incomplete. It in this concept that I would like to pursue a course that control system in your esteemed university. 

I am very much interested to do MS Computer Science in your esteemed college. I realize the need for me to study at the center stage of activity in these fields at your college in USA. My earnest desire to continue my future studies at your graduate school stems from that it is one of the top colleges in Ireland having fine record of academic excellence and is backed up by expert faculty and research facilities. 

The other reason why I want to study at your esteemed college is that it provides the kind of expose needed to broaden my thinking and indo any insular prejudices that might be still prevalent in me. Your college is a confluence of people from every nationality, religion and race. Overall development of the personality can be done and it helps me to broaden my concept from the narrower confines of nationalism to internationalism. 

I am clear as to my carrier aspiration. Educational I believe is a life long process. I there fore wish to pursue a doctoral degree after my MS and therefore combine research and teaching as carrier. I am fully aware that yours curriculum requires that I summon all my resources and I aver that I have the necessary commitment, intelligence and stamina to look forward to do it all. I am convinced that my study at your department would be meaningful and rewarding experience. I look forward to have a long and profitable association with your esteemed college. I especially thank you for giving me the opportunity given me to express about myself.
